Let's begin with the longest and creating subsequent problem and let's see how to optimize its complexity.
So we have seen a solution in which what happens is we we have the EPA and the thing with max of lipids
and diesel as a name, whereas EGY is less than equal to it.
So let's say for the sake of our understanding, let's say all these eyes are distinct.
Distinct.
That means all of them are unique and have to find the longest increasing subsequent rate.
So before moving on to this, let me give some space.
Okay.
And some more space.
But --.
Full and.
So this is one of the examples.
And let me just copy this example quickly.
And then what we'll do is we will try to have a will try to apply something very.
Interesting on this eight and.
Yeah.
So what we can do is we have this simple recursive relation.
That means I have to find out the maximum of some previous values.
But.
Or.
But for those previous I lose.
I don't have to find out the maximum of of all the previous release rate.
I have to find the maximum of the indexes which are on the left of it.
Where.
E.g. eight where AJ is less integral to it because there can be some for example for this one.
We can see that part is greater.
So I don't want to DP evaluate.
I don't want it for 22.
I don't want this to be value.
I don't want it to be value added.
What can I do to avoid this?
What can I do to avoid using the deep values of the elements which are greater than the current element?
Eight.
Just think about it for a moment, because of course, I'll tell it.
But yeah.
Just think about it once.
Well, so let's understand this.
And what we will do is I will try to go in and order.
This is important.
So this this thing that I'm going to tell you, I have personally used it in more than 23 problems.
And those are very good problems.
But in this, what will happen is I try to go in and order.
What is the meaning of going in?
And order means whinging in order means that I will not start updating the deep values on the left.
I start updating DP values from the way in the way I want it to be updated.
Right.
For example, let me quickly copy this once more and then I'll show you an example.
But so let's try to formulate some deep values and then we will understand that what I actually mean.
So we know that for any element, for adding element I, what I want is I want, I want, let's say
for any element, I want some maximum of some previous values for some previous range.
But what if I see that only those values are updated on the left of it, which are smaller than the
current element?
Let's see, if only those values are updated, then I'll get the maximum rate and then I get the correct
maximum.
So let's say initially the whole array is filled with zero.
The hole.
This is a deep hole.
And just try to understand what I'm trying to explain here, because it's very important.
And then what I'll do is I'll start with the smallest element, and then I'll move on to some bigger
elements.
Well, so what is the smallest element in the array?
Let me write it in increasing order.
So we have seven, eight, nine.
Then I think it is 15.
Never need 915 and 2223.
We have 2223.
We have one more 23 and.
So said.
I know we are just considering that.
All the elements are unique to let me just make it 20 foot.
Well, we have 124 and 49.
We have 49 over here.
Horse race, gender, and that is done.
We have 28.
2830.
1044, 40, 44, 49, 40, 44 and 49.
Well, you know what I try to do?
I'll try to move in an order in easily.
My address will be zero.
And then I'll try to find the IP values of seven.
What is the deep value of seven for?
To calculate the deep value of seven, which is on index zero.
What I want is I want the minimum of all those JS which are on left of it, and where it is less than
that is less than seven.
So we can see that seven is already on the.
I left most part of this area.
That means nothing of that would work.
Right.
And I have to add, plus one already had eight because of whatever the mix among them we have to add
plus one.
That's the whole legal.
So what I do this for the seven I simply updated by one because there's nothing on the left of it.
I don't have to find anything maximum.
Now let's go on to this eight before this.
It this eight is on which index it's on.
Zero window three turtlenecks though this eight isn't hard index so they know their time.
One third index over here would look for this.
Eight.
What I want is I want the maximum of the previous DPI values data field.
So what is the maximum?
Whatever it is for right now.
It is one.
I hope you are getting this.
Why am I only getting one as the maximum in this case?
Because.
Only seven was four and seven was less than it.
So for any element in this, let's say 23, let's I want 23 and if I want to find note of the maximum
of whatever it is on the left return to Trinity P values only these value would be filled.
Correct.
So these value can be anywhere can be on left, on D3, on right from D3.
But I'm just taking the maximum on the left of it.
Eight which will guarantee two things can maximum on the left will guarantee this that these less than
I and going in in order filling these deep values in an order we get into this that AJ is less than
the eight only but only those is there deep values for eight for example in this case for eight I can
see that the maximum to be values one eight and that's coming from seven, of course, and I simply
ability to do it.
Now let's move on to the next, which is nine.
So nine is over here.
It is on index nine.
What a Nixon word I want is.
I want the.
Maximum of these values.
Maximum on the left.
So as we can see, whatever elements are less than nine, only those values are free.
That means seven is fairly disputed.
And what does the maximum these two it is two.
What will be the value for nine?
It will be the maximum on whatever is on the left of it.
Plus one.
Correct.
So it will be three.
I hope you are seeing that the correct liberals are getting it because we are operating in an order.
Let's move to the next one, which is 15 vs 15.
The last one before 15 one.
The maximum on the left of it.
What is the maximum on the left over this.
One, two, three.
These are maximum.
So the answer will be 48.
And finally, I want to go on to the just 22.
So this is an interesting case.
This I know we are on five.
We want to max on the left.
It's right now.
You can see that we are not considering those elements which are also less than 22, but they are on
the right of it.
We don't want them.
We only want the maximum for all those elements which are on the left of it.
And by going in order, this guarantees that only those values are filled.
Those values are updated in the deep area, which are smaller than the current.
What is the maximum?
Just one plus one will be three.
So you can see this and finally you can, you know, fill the whole value in this way.
Correct.
So this is not a very tricky stuff, but it is a very important rate because.
Segment will only give me a range of range, a range gradient range update rate and a point upgrade
as well.
What a range quality.
We don't want that range to be filled with some other values that I don't need.
I will only build those values we need in those ranges and ask for the answer.
So in that way you can, you know, maintain an order and all this.
So for every index, what I'm doing is mostly I'm trying to going in order and going in order.
What I have to do is I have to actually make these elements as a pair sard them and go according to
the indexes after starting them and then follow the values over here, the starting, then build again,
log in time.
Okay, we'll just go through then complexity after record it.
And in the next prob in the next material, I'll just call it out.
Thank you all.